## Using Kepler.gl to Map Travel Activity

I have had continual tracking of my data via my cellphone since mid 2009 and have been fairly rigorous in reviewing and cleaning up my Google Timeline for the better part of the last five years. As a result my downloaded tracking data was a rather large 697MB. I tried to use the python script outlined in the tutorial but came across a few issues:The run command to use in the tutorial incorrectly states the filename with hyphens (-) instead of underscores (_). It took me a few attempts with errors in the command window to realize this issueThe command includes "-o" between the input and out files, but my command prompt kept giving me an "unknown parameter" error and the "-h" help screen does not indicate what "-o" is used for.Not wanting to keep trying to troubleshoot the python run command, I went forth with a little more manual process. Using the online json -> csv converter tool (https://www.convertcsv.com/json-to-csv.htm) I added my .json file from Google only to find out the site could not handle the size of the file (or at least I assume that is the case as the site froze three separate times) I then went into the Google download and pulled out just a few of the most recent months as each file was considerably smaller. This worked and I was able to convert and save csv files for August 2019-April 2020. Opening the csv files in Excel, I pulled out the columns for lat, long, and time for both start and end of trips. This is where I came across the next issue - prior to December 2019, the column layout of data from the export is slightly different causing the values to not be as expected when scrolling through the file. I ended up scrapping the trip data prior to December 2019 to save time and sanity. Finally, the lat and long data did not have decimal breakdowns so I did a "text to columns" action in excel to split the columns by the first two digits and the remainder. Then added in a decimal point via Concatenate of the two separate columns. Similarly, the timestamp data from google is in Milliseconds since 1/1/1970. Using a quick formula (=(timestampMS/86400000) + DATE(1970,1,1)) game me the date number that could be used to determine the day and time.Finally with a dataset I could use, I imported the csv in to Kepler and quickly was able to plot my start to end trips for the last four months. Adding my custom Mapbox style, and tweaking my location data to show hotspot and arc data, I was able to get an animation of my recorded motion data. Specifically, it was fun to see the trips I would take in the mornings and evenings to both drop off my partner at which ever hospital she was serving for her clerkships and also drop off my dog at his daycare. Outside of these locations, the vast majority of my location data show me going to and from my house in East Liberty to Hamburg Hall.
